  The dhc working group (DHC WG) has developed DHCP for automated 
  allocation, configuration and management of IP addresses and TCP/IP 
  protocol stack parameters. DHCPv4 is currently a "Draft Standard" and 
  is documented in RFC 2131 and RFC 2132. DHCPv6 is currently a 
  "Proposed Standard" and is documented in RFC 3315. Subsequent RFCs 
  document additional options and other enhancements to the 
  specifications.

  The DHC WG is responsible for defining DHCPv6 protocol extensions.
  Definition of new DHCP options that are delivered using standard
  mechanisms are not considered a protocol extension and thus are
  outside of scope for DHC WG. Such options should be defined within
  their respective WGs and reviewed by the DHCP Directorate.

  However, the DHC WG may develop its own options that relate to 
  either maintenance of existing specifications or improvements in 
  the operation of the DHCP infrastructure itself.

  The DHC WG will only work on DHCPv4 when it is useful to support
  transitioning from IPv4 to IPv6.

  The DHC WG has the following main objectives:
  
  * Develop extensions to the DHCPv6 infrastructure as required to meet
  new applications and deployments of DHCP. The topics currently 
  in development are:
  
  - DHCPv6 Failover, High Availability and Load Balancing
  - DNS Update strategies for delegated prefixes
  - Extend DHCPv6 to work with multiple provisioning domains
  - Provisioning for IPv6 migration technologies
  - SOLMAXRT counter update
  - Container option
  - Address Network Identifier

  (tomek: do we want to add registration service here? I think it was
  Suresh who said that they'll ask v6ops if DHCP is the right protocol
  to do registration. bernie: i think it best to leave off for now.)

  (tomek: this is a leftover from -06. We should remove this sentence.
   It means we'd violate the charter every time we adopt something or
   need to bug Ted every time. bernie: i think this is pretty standard?)
  (removed: The adoption of new items requires explicit agreement from 
  the AD or rechartering.)

  * develop documents that help explains operational considerations
    for the wider community
  (tomek: Ted's topo-conf, dhc-inventory and other similar drafts)

  * advance DHCPv6 (RFC 3315) along the IETF Standards Track, write
  analyses of the DHCPv6 specifications, including RFC 3315, RFC3633,
  RFC3736 and other RFCs defining additional options, which identifies
  ambiguities, contradictory specifications and other obstacles to
  development of interoperable implementations. Recommend a process
  for resolving identified problems and incorporating the resolutions
  into the DHCP specification.

  * specify guidelines for creating new DHCPv6 options.

  (to be removed:
  * Assess the requirements for a dual-stack host to use DHCP to obtain 
  configuration settings for both IPv4 and IPv6. Hosts that include 
  implementations of both IPv4 and IPv6 ("dual-stack hosts") may use 
  DHCP to obtain configuration settings (including assigned addresses) 
  for both IPv4 and IPv6. The DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 specifications (RFC 
  2131, RFC 2132, RFC 3315 and subsequent RFCs) do not explicitly 
  explain how a dual-stack host uses DHCP to obtain configuration 
  settings for both IP stacks. The DHC WG will evaluate solutions for 
  configuration of dual-stack hosts through DHCP and select a solution 
  that will be developed and published by the WG.)
  (Bernie: let's remove it, tomek: on the fence)
  (tomek: what about this one? the v4 and v6 clients matching is
  an unsolved problem, especially when dealing with DHCID record in
  DDNS. DUID idenifiers were later added to DHCPv4, but they are not
  commonly used yet. Perhaps we could leave this text and see if there
  is anyone willing to work on such a document?)

  (removed:* Hold a discussion whether on-link prefix information and default 
  router information is needed in DHCP in addition to router 
  advertisements. Actual solutions are out of scope for the WG, 
  however.)
  (both Bernie and Tomek agreed to not have it in DHC.)

  (Tomek: this was in -06 charter. I think we should remove it. In
  case we decide to keep it, we need at least clarify that it is
  about IPv6/DHCPv6. Bernie: holding a discussion seems like a pretty
  open ended work item? What is the goal? Determine if needed? Who or
  how would action be taken if we held this discussion and determined
  it was needed? Is this a v6ops or 6man task? Why do we think we are
  better qualified to handle this, rather than v6ops or 6man?)
  

