Document Writeup, template from IESG area on ietf.org, dated 24 February
2012.

draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv4-active-leasequery-01

(1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard,
Internet Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)? Why is
this the proper type of RFC? Is this type of RFC indicated in the title
page header?

   Proposed standard. This I-D defines an extension to the DHCPv4, so
   it only really makes sense as Proposed standard. The indended type
   is clearly indicated in the header.

(2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement
Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement Write-Up. Recent
examples can be found in the "Action" announcements for approved
documents. The approval announcement contains the following sections:

Technical Summary:

   The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv4 (DHCPv4) has been
   extended with a Leasequery capability that allows a client to request
   information about DHCPv4 bindings.  That mechanism is limited to
   queries for individual bindings.  In some situations individual
   binding queries may not be efficient, or even possible.  In addition,
   continuous update of an external client with Leasequery data is
   sometimes desired.  This document expands on the DHCPv4 Leasequery
   protocol, and allows for active transfer of near real-time DHCPv4
   address binding information data via TCP.

Working Group Summary:

   Active leasequery for DHCPv4 was initially proposed in 2010, but
   after 2 revisions it was abandoned due to lack of interest in the
   WG.  In 2013 active leasequery was proposed for DHCPv6 and received
   strong support in the WG. v6 version was presented in Vancouver
   (IETF88, Nov 2013) and one of the questions was whether WG is
   interested in its v4 equivalent. The strong consensus in the room
   (later confirmed on ML) was to have active leasequery for both
   DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 and thus the v4 draft was revived. As the
   principles are the same, this ended up in a somewhat unusually fast
   path. Cisco seems to have working implementation of this protocol,
   which is reflected in high maturity of the draft. 00 WG item 
   passed WGLC in March 2014. The -01 (June 2014) addresses all raised
   comments (all were minor).

Document Quality:

   Even though the draft has relatively low number (-01), it is high
   quality and its content is mature. Personally, I think this is the
   result of several factors: Cisco having its implementation, great
   experience of its primary author (Kim Kinnear) and also the
   similarity to its DHCPv6 counter-part. I have reviewed it and
   think it is ready for publication. It is idnits clean.

Personnel:

Who is the Document Shepherd? Who is the Responsible Area Director?

   Tomek Mrugalski is the document shepherd. Ted Lemon is the
   responsible AD.

(3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by
the Document Shepherd. If this version of the document is not ready for
publication, please explain why the document is being forwarded to the
IESG.

   I did read this document thoroughly and posted my comments to the
   ML: http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/dhcwg/current/msg15380.html
   TODO: Check if all comments were addressed.


(4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or
breadth of the reviews that have been performed?

  ...

(5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from
broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, DNS,
DHCP, XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the review that took
place.

  ...

(6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document Shepherd
has with this document that the Responsible Area Director and/or the
IESG should be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she is uncomfortable
with certain parts of the document, or has concerns whether there really
is a need for it. In any event, if the WG has discussed those issues and
has indicated that it still wishes to advance the document, detail those
concerns here.

  ...

(7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR
disclosures required for full conformance with the provisions of BCP 78
and BCP 79 have already been filed. If not, explain why?

  ...

(8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document? If
so, summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR
disclosures.

  ...

(9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it
represent the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others being
silent, or does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it?

  ...

(10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme
discontent?  If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in separate
email messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It should be in a
separate email because this questionnaire is publicly available.)

  ...

(11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this
document. (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the Internet-Drafts
Checklist). Boilerplate checks are not enough; this check needs to be
thorough.

  ...

(12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review
criteria, such as the MIB Doctor, media type, and URI type reviews.

  ...

(13) Have all references within this document been identified as either
normative or informative?

  ...

(14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready for
advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such normative
references exist, what is the plan for their completion?

  ...

(15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC 3967)?
If so, list these downward references to support the Area Director in
the Last Call procedure.

  ...

(16) Will publication of this document change the status of any existing
RFCs?  Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, listed in the
abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the RFCs are not listed
in the Abstract and Introduction, explain why, and point to the part of
the document where the relationship of this document to the other RFCs
is discussed. If this information is not in the document, explain why
the WG considers it unnecessary.

  ...

(17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA considerations
section, especially with regard to its consistency with the body of the
document. Confirm that all protocol extensions that the document makes
are associated with the appropriate reservations in IANA
registries. Confirm that any referenced IANA registries have been
clearly identified. Confirm that newly created IANA registries include a
detailed specification of the initial contents for the registry, that
allocations procedures for future registrations are defined, and a
reasonable name for the new registry has been suggested (see RFC 5226).

  ...

(18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for future
allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG would find useful
in selecting the IANA Experts for these new registries.

  ...

(19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document
Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal
language, such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, etc.

  ...
